I attended the consensus decision making workshop because we had made a decision that the Social Science Centre should be run on a non-hirearchical, co-operative basis and I was keen to ensure I had an understanding of consensus and how it could be effectively applied by us. I was also curious about how I could apply what I learned to other situations, especially in my day-to-day work. I attended both days of the workshop and found it very well structured and facilitated. I enjoyed getting to know the participants and to learn about Seeds of Change. I didn't have any specific expectations for the workshop, only that it would be better to attend than to not attend. 

I came to the weekend workshop with two questions: 

1. Can this method of decision-making be effectively performed online?
2. Is this form of decision-making possible in large groups?

Both questions were discussed in groups on the second day, although it would have been useful to bring everyone's thoughts together as I'm still not clear what people in the other group thought. One side-effect of the weekend being so well structured and facilitated is that it was difficult to find time to fit these adhoc discussions in. Within my own group (of three, including Hannah, the facilitator), we agreed that it would be difficult to consistently use consensus online as the use of online tools can be exclusive. However, we also agreed that there are face-to-face situations that can be exclusive, too. For example, the regularity and timing of meetings, when some people are unable to attend. 

On the possibility of using consensus as a form of decision-making among large groups of people, I think our group was even less convinced. The discussion reinforced the decision we made (I think we made??) to allow Associate Academic members an opportunity to be heard at AGMs, but on the every day matters of running the SSC by consensus, Associate Members, many of who we expect will not be regularly present in Lincoln, will not be consulted on governance decisions as a matter of course. 

Overall, I enjoyed the weekend very much - I don't think we could have got *more* out of it - but I feel strongly that we now need to meet again, for at least a half day in August to reflect on the workshop and decide whether and how to use consensus decision-making for the running of the SSC. I'm inclined to think we should and that although not perfect (what is?), it's a method that's well suited to our constituted desire to be a non-hirearchical, co-operatively run group.